Let's take a little side trip here and
talk about namespaces just so
you all understand how they work.
Who here, or online,
like who's used jQuery before?
Awesome, every passing year I
get a little bit afraid that
people forget what jQuery is.
Great, lots of people use jQuery.
It's still on 80% of websites globally.
And aside from the highest
traffic websites,
it's incredibly likely that
you'll find jQuery on things.
The purpose of jQuery was,
it helped us at a time where
we did not have a standardized
DOM API we could use.
So if you use
document.querySelector today,
that was not a thing that we could
rely on in the early 2010s and before.
We needed a library that sort of
provided some abstractions that would do
the right thing in like early
versions of Internet Explorer.
And worked on all the browsers,
it's it's really a compatibility layer.
So there are two kinds of things
that we can do with jQuery, or
two common kinds of things.
One is, so first off,
we would distribute jQuery as a global.
You'd import a script,
add it to your website, right?
You'd have a script tag,
you'd paste that in your HTML.
And then as a result of that script being
evaluated, it would set up a global.
You would include this script and then
you'd be able to just hit dollar sign, and
there's jQuery.
This was before we had proper packaging
where you'd import things that you need.
It would just be set up as a global.
So hanging off of this global would
be a bunch of functions like .ajax.
If you've not used this,
this is like the old equivalent to fetch.
This is making a HTTP
request asynchronously.
And here you can see, this is actually
what's on the jQuery homepage right now.
Ajax later began to return promises before
promises were a standardized thing.
But the earliest versions had you passing
in a callback to handle the success case
and a different callback
to handle the failure case.
So this is a function
hanging off of dollar sign.
Also, you could invoke
dollar sign as a function.
And this is equivalent to
document.querySelectorAll,
where you're saying,
here is an expression,
find me the DOM nodes that
meet this expression.
And then I wanna operate on them.
And today we would get like a node
list back from QuerySelectorAll.
jQuery had its own little construct here,
but it would give you a forEach.
And this is how we used to do DOM
manipulation in a way that would work
across a wide range of browsers.
Typing this is challenging.
It's a function and it's got a bunch
of stuff dangling off of it.
How do we type that?
With a namespace.
So this is an approximate type for jQuery.
We could say that we have
a function called dollar sign and
it returns a node list of elements.
And here we're probably failing or
like implementing it by calling,
effectively the API that replaced it.
And then we can have a namespace here
that exposes functions which sort
of end up dangling off of the dollar sign.
That's the idea of a namespace.
You can have a function and
then you can merge on top of it things
that should be kind of
dangling off of this function.
If we take this ts-ignore comment away,
We can see that there's a namespace
dollar sign, function dollar sign.
So we can see that we have declaration
merging here, we see a namespace and
a non namespace value.
And we can invoke it and
we can access .ajax off of it.
So this is a very good example of
why we used to use namespaces for
this kind of thing.
NThis is sort of evidence that TypeScript,
one of the problems it's trying to solve
is that a very wide range of JavaScript
things can be effectively typed.
And without namespace we would have
to get really interesting here.
We could type it other ways, but
it's more clear when you can say,
here's the callable thing and
then here are the things
that are dangling off of it.
You could have one big mega
interface with a call signature and
a bunch of properties there.
There are advantages to doing it this
way where you could sort of break your
type information up into
a bunch of different files and
sort of expose them all
through the central namespace.
It's easier to manage
when you do it this way.